Autumn and winter passed without event. Arthur worked diligently, and he had little free time. Yet again, or even twice
a week, he found moment to look to the Montanelli. Sometimes he came to him with a book for an explanation of a
difficult place, and in such cases only talked about it. Feeling risen between them almost impalpable obstacle,
Montanelli avoided anything that might seem like an attempt on his part to restore the old intimacy. Arthur visits
brought him now more bitter than joy. It was difficult to maintain a constant voltage, appear calm and behave as if
nothing has changed. Arthur also noticed some change in the handling padre and, realizing that it is linked to a serious
question about his "new ideas", avoided any mention of the subject, who owned his thoughts unceasingly.

Still, Arthur never liked Montanelli so hot as it is now. From the vague but persistent feeling of dissatisfaction and
spiritual emptiness, which he so painstakingly trying to drown out the study of theology and the observance of the rites
of the Catholic Church, at the first acquaintance with his "Young Italy" was gone. Gone unhealthy daydreaming
generated by loneliness and vigil at the bedside of the dying, no doubt, was to escape from which he resorted to prayer.
Together with a new enthusiasm, a new, clearer perception of religion (because in the student movement Arthur saw not
so much political as religious basis) came to him a sense of peace, spiritual completeness, tranquility and location of
the people. The whole world was illumined for him in a new light. He found a new, worthy of love hand in people,
unpleasant to him before, and Montanelli, who was five years ideal for him, seemed to him now the future prophet of a
new faith, a new shine on the forehead. He eagerly listened to the sermon padre, trying to catch them in the next inner
kinship with republican ideas; long I pondered the gospel and rejoiced in the democratic spirit of Christianity in the
days of its occurrence.

One January day Arthur came back to take them to the book in the seminary. Upon learning that his father was rector came
out, he climbed to the office Montanelli, put that on the shelf and was about to go, when it attracted the attention of
a book lying on the table. It was the work of Dante - "De Monarchia". Arthur started to read the book and soon
got so carried away that he heard and opened the door closed again. He looked up from reading only when behind him a
voice Montanelli.